Let's talk about using Spark clusters.
In this lesson, we explore running a Spark cluster.
We discuss languages that work with Spark and why Python is a great way to get started.
We dive into a data pipeline in action and discuss the main components that make it tick.
Lastly, we deploy or submit an application to a running Spark cluster.
In the first part of this section,
we talk about why you would use a server cluster.
Spark can orchestrate from one to hundreds of worker nodes.
ZooKeeper connects to the Spark master and is
optional for high availability in a standalone cluster.
In Kubernetes, you submit the Spark application
using the URI for the Kubernetes cluster API.
You can run Spark in a container platform like
Kubernetes or on a standalone cluster of servers you provision.
In a standalone cluster,
you submit the Spark application using
the Spark master URI or Universal Resource Identifier.
The order that you start the Spark cluster in is important.
The first step is starting this Spark master.
Next, check the logs for the Spark master URI.
Now, you are ready to start the worker,
pointing to the master Spark URI.
To start the Spark cluster,
first run the start master.sh script.
Watch for the log file,
cut or tail the log file watching for the Spark URI in bold.
Run the start slave.sh script with the spark URI immediately after the script name.
These commands may seem like a lot of information.
We will practice these commands a lot more.
You just learned how to start up a Spark cluster.
Now we will talk about why Python is an ideal language to write and deploy on Spark.
Spark is polyglot, which means it supports multiple languages.
You can write Spark Streaming applications using R,
which is very popular for data science applications.
You can also use Java,
which is very familiar to a large portion of the development community.
Spark also supports Scala,
one of the foundational languages for Spark and big data.
Lastly, Spark supports Python,
one of the most popular programming languages.
Data Streaming constructs vary from language to language.
R uses DataFrames, Java and Scala use types datasets.
Python uses DataFrames.
Spark supports R, Java, Scala, and Python.
Why use Python to write a data pipeline?
Python is not strictly typed,
which can make writing a data streaming application very easy.
It is extremely popular for data science applications,
which makes it a great choice.
You just learned why Python is an ideal language to deploy on a Spark cluster.
Next, you will learn about data pipelines.
It is very rarely for purely academic reasons that we process data,
usually we have a pressing need for
some information to assist in the decisioning process of our business.
The data we evaluate originates in one place and arrives in a different place.
A data pipeline or Spark application delivers value by
retrieving and then sending augmented or updated data onto another system.
A data pipeline is a series of steps of processing that augment or
refine a raw data source in preparation for consumption by another system.
Every Spark application starts by reading in a data source.
A series of steps is executed that transforms the original flow of information.
The end result is a DataFrame that can be synced externally with an outside system.
The source is continually pulled for updates to apply the transformations.
This continual pulling is what sets
Spark Streaming apart from non streaming applications.
Here's a sample of Spark Streaming application.
Note the import of SparkSession is omitted for brevity,
we start by instantiating a SparkSession.
This connects us to the Spark cluster.
Next, we open a streaming source,
Kafka in this case.
Third, we apply data transformations.
Last, we sink data to something external to Spark.
The console is a good sink to test her data quality visually.
To take advantage of the resources in the Spark cluster,
we submit or deploy the Spark code.
You will need to start the master,
and the workers, and lastly,
submit the application code.
You just learned about data pipelines.
Now we will talk about how to run one in Spark.
To deploy your Spark application,
first start the master,
then start the worker.
You should wait up to two minutes to see the results.
When your Spark Streaming application begins producing data,
it will push the data to the sink you of created.
By default, Spark executes and micro batches.
When sinking to the console,
you will see the batches.
When sinking to anything else,
you won't see the batches on the console.
You should wait up to two minutes to see the results.